South Korean health officials have warned residents to take current restrictions seriously, as the country faces the possibility of entering into its first potential lockdown since the beginning of the pandemic amid an alarming rise in new infections.

South Korea has long been considered a model country for its effective response to multiple waves of coronavirus, earning praise from the World Health Organization earlier this year after authorities successfully halted the spread of the initial outbreak.
Despite being among the first countries to be hit by the virus, South Korea has managed to avoid the type of stringent lockdown measures seen elsewhere in the world, thanks largely to a combination of aggressive testing and sophisticated track and trace techniques.
But as the pandemic drags on into winter, the emergence of a so-called "third wave" has resulted in an apparently untraceable rise in new infections.
Speaking Wednesday, senior Health Ministry official Yoon Tae-ho urged people to participate fully with social distancing measures in the Seoul Metropolitan area, which accounts for around half of the country's 51 million-strong population. Those restrictions are currently at level 2.5 on the country's scale, with level 3 being a de facto lockdown.
Yoon said officials are currently consulting with experts, local governments, and the anti-virus work committee about whether to raise restrictions to level 3.
Such a move would likely constitute "a big social change," warned Yoon and could result in harm to small businesses and the self-employed.
On Tuesday, South Korea reported 1,078 new cases, the majority of which were locally transmitted, bringing the national total to 45,442. Some 226 patients are in critical condition, while there were an additional 12 deaths Tuesday, increasing total fatalities to 612.
While these numbers pale in comparison to those seen in much of Europe or the United States, the latest spike is demonstrative of the additional difficulties caused by freezing winter temperatures -- which drive people indoors, where infection is easier -- and growing fatigue over restrictions and precautions.
According to a tally by Johns Hopkins University, cases in South Korea have been steadily increasing since mid-November, and the country has been slowly enacting more restrictions and social distancing rules in response.
Last week, military and police were called in to help with contact tracing efforts, while testing centers extended their hours into the night and on weekends to encourage tes